# Capstone Project Requirements

- Before you begin the project planning phase, you will be submitting a project proposal to me for approval. This proposal should be brief: a paragraph or two long, describing what your app will do, what technologies it will use, what major tasks you will complete in what order, and what new challenges you will be taking on.
- The first week or so of your capstone work should be dedicated to project planning: proposal, research, evaluation of any similar apps, building comprehensive wireframes, breaking required tasks down into clearly-defined Trello tickets/stories, Git repo setup and customization (adding collaborators for code review, setting up branch protection, researching Gitflow workflow), potentially writing your first few tests using TDD, etc. Before starting to work on project development, you will be meeting with me (Sarah) to discuss your project and review your prepared materials.
- Your repo will use [GitHub’s Gitflow workflow](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/gitflow-workflow).
- Your Git commits should follow [Bitwise’s commit message guidelines](https://github.com/Shift3/standards-and-practices/blob/main/standards/commits.md).
- Each apprentice will be included in a group of three team members who will work together to code review each others' code. Each PR that you make should be reviewed by at least one of your reviewers, using the [Bitwise Code Review Process](https://github.com/Shift3/standards-and-practices/blob/main/standards/code-reviews.md#process). 
- Your repo should feature a thorough README.md at the project’s root. Use [Bitwise’s README Guidelines](https://github.com/Shift3/standards-and-practices/blob/main/standards/readme-guidelines.md) as a starting place. 
- Your app should use ESLint and the Airbnb style guide to enforce consistency and code quality.
- Your app should use either the Context API or Redux Toolkit to handle state management. Note that there may still be some areas where local state (useState or useReducer) is necessary within your project. Not sure what state solution to use where? I'm available to help you make this decision.
- Your app should include component tests for at least five of your React components, and at least two of these test files should be built using the TDD workflow (writing tests first, then writing code to pass the tests).
- Your app should use TypeScript for all React components.
- Your app can *optionally* include a back-end (server + database, for instance). This is not required, and inclusion of a back-end should not prevent completion of your capstone’s MVP.
